docs/faq/component-libraries.md, before:

# Web Component Libraries

The hardest part of any project is often getting content onto that first blank page. To make it easier to get your app off the ground quickly, we've collected a list of design systems which are based on web-components from which you can acquire elements or inspiration.

- [AMP](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/)

  The AMP HTML library consists of a basic runtime that brings the core functionalities of AMP to your page. If you want to add additional features you can do so by using one or more of the ready-to-use AMP components. 
- [Aybolit](https://web-padawan.github.io/aybolit/)

  A growing family of elements with default styling for Bootstrap, Bulma, and Material, as well as a solid white-label basis for extending the underlying functionality with your own custom designs.
- [Bolt](https://boltdesignsystem.com/)

  A family of web components built with first-class participation in the Twig templating system for PHP in mind. This set is backed by an expansive catalog of usage variants.
- [Elix](https://component.kitchen/elix)

  The Elix project aims to create a universal library of all general-purpose user interface patterns commonly found in desktop and mobile UIs, where each pattern is implemented as a well-designed, attractive, high-quality, performant, accessible, localizable, and extensively customizable web component.
- [Helix UI](https://rackerlabs.github.io/helix-ui/)

  The HelixUI library provides front-end developers a set of reusable CSS classes and HTML Custom Elements that adhere to Helix design standards, as outlined by Rackspace.
- [Ionic UI Components](https://ionicframework.com/docs/components)

  Take advantage of the component system that powers Ionic applications with a large ecosystem to choose from and in-depth usage instructions, no matter the framework you use.
- [Lightning Web Components by SalesForce](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/component-library/overview/components)

  Lightning Web Components are now the go-to standard for developing applications in the SalesForce ecosystem, and with the power of web components, they can be the basis of applications outside of their ecosystem, too! 
- [Material Web Components](https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-components/demos/index.html)

  Material Design Components from Material Design team themselves. Stay as close as possible to the changing specification with these components from Google's own Material Design team.
- [Morningstar](http://designsystem.morningstar.com/components/component-status.html)

  The Morningstar Design System combines vanilla HTML/CSS with web components in just the right proportions to empower the design and development of wide reaching content and functionality.
- [UI5 Web Components](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/)

  Get the power and flexibility of SAP's UI5 rendering stack with the ergonomics and ease of use of web components, and bring enterprise-grade features, Fiori UX and themeability home to your application.
- [Smart HTML Elements](https://www.htmlelements.com)

  With the goal of helping to deliver modern responsive websites and applications that work on any device and are pleasure to use, the Smart HTML Elements collection is one the most feature rich and comprehensive javascript user interface frameworks.
- [Vaadin](https://vaadin.com/components)

  Vaadin has a comprehensive set of beautifully crafted, performant, and adaptable UI components for modern mobile-first Web apps. They are the ideal building blocks for Progressive Web Applications.
- [Wired Elements](https://wiredjs.com/)

  A set of common UI elements with a hand-drawn, sketchy look. These can be used for wireframes, mockups, or just the fun hand-drawn look.

::: tip Don't see your design system here?
If you have a design system built on web components, we'd love to include it here! Please make a pull request adding a link with a short description via our [github repository](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/pulls).
:::

Commit message:

docs: add "Ink Components" to component list

docs/faq/component-libraries.md, after:

# Web Component Libraries

The hardest part of any project is often getting content onto that first blank page. To make it easier to get your app off the ground quickly, we've collected a list of design systems which are based on web-components from which you can acquire elements or inspiration.

- [AMP](https://amp.dev/documentation/components/)

  The AMP HTML library consists of a basic runtime that brings the core functionalities of AMP to your page. If you want to add additional features you can do so by using one or more of the ready-to-use AMP components. 
- [Aybolit](https://web-padawan.github.io/aybolit/)

  A growing family of elements with default styling for Bootstrap, Bulma, and Material, as well as a solid white-label basis for extending the underlying functionality with your own custom designs.
- [Bolt](https://boltdesignsystem.com/)

  A family of web components built with first-class participation in the Twig templating system for PHP in mind. This set is backed by an expansive catalog of usage variants.
- [Elix](https://component.kitchen/elix)

  The Elix project aims to create a universal library of all general-purpose user interface patterns commonly found in desktop and mobile UIs, where each pattern is implemented as a well-designed, attractive, high-quality, performant, accessible, localizable, and extensively customizable web component.
- [Helix UI](https://rackerlabs.github.io/helix-ui/)

  The HelixUI library provides front-end developers a set of reusable CSS classes and HTML Custom Elements that adhere to Helix design standards, as outlined by Rackspace.
- [Ink Components](https://components.ink/)

  Web components for interactive scientific writing, reactive documents and explorable explanations. The Ink Components library can bring your math and science documents to the next level by breathing life into charts, equations, and variables that can be used throughout your application or content. 
- [Ionic UI Components](https://ionicframework.com/docs/components)

  Take advantage of the component system that powers Ionic applications with a large ecosystem to choose from and in-depth usage instructions, no matter the framework you use.
- [Lightning Web Components by SalesForce](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/component-library/overview/components)

  Lightning Web Components are now the go-to standard for developing applications in the SalesForce ecosystem, and with the power of web components, they can be the basis of applications outside of their ecosystem, too! 
- [Material Web Components](https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-components/demos/index.html)

  Material Design Components from Material Design team themselves. Stay as close as possible to the changing specification with these components from Google's own Material Design team.
- [Morningstar](http://designsystem.morningstar.com/components/component-status.html)

  The Morningstar Design System combines vanilla HTML/CSS with web components in just the right proportions to empower the design and development of wide reaching content and functionality.
- [UI5 Web Components](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/)

  Get the power and flexibility of SAP's UI5 rendering stack with the ergonomics and ease of use of web components, and bring enterprise-grade features, Fiori UX and themeability home to your application.
- [Smart HTML Elements](https://www.htmlelements.com)

  With the goal of helping to deliver modern responsive websites and applications that work on any device and are pleasure to use, the Smart HTML Elements collection is one the most feature rich and comprehensive javascript user interface frameworks.
- [Vaadin](https://vaadin.com/components)

  Vaadin has a comprehensive set of beautifully crafted, performant, and adaptable UI components for modern mobile-first Web apps. They are the ideal building blocks for Progressive Web Applications.
- [Wired Elements](https://wiredjs.com/)

  A set of common UI elements with a hand-drawn, sketchy look. These can be used for wireframes, mockups, or just the fun hand-drawn look.

::: tip Don't see your design system here?
If you have a design system built on web components, we'd love to include it here! Please make a pull request adding a link with a short description via our [github repository](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/pulls).
:::
