README.md, before:

> ## 🛠 Status: In Development
> open-wc is still in an early stage - please review our recommendations and test our tools! We'd love to get your feedback.

<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/blob/master/assets/images/logo.png" width="200" alt="Open-wc Logo" /></p>

# Open Web Component Recommendations
Open Web Components provides a set of defaults, recommendations and tools to help facilitate your web component project. Our recommendations include: developing, linting, testing, building, tooling, demoing, publishing and automating.

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/open-wc/open-wc.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/open-wc/open-wc)
[![BrowserStack Status](https://www.browserstack.com/automate/badge.svg?badge_key=M2UrSFVRang2OWNuZXlWSlhVc3FUVlJtTDkxMnp6eGFDb2pNakl4bGxnbz0tLUE5RjhCU0NUT1ZWa0NuQ3MySFFWWnc9PQ==--86f7fac07cdbd01dd2b26ae84dc6c8ca49e45b50)](https://www.browserstack.com/automate/public-build/M2UrSFVRang2OWNuZXlWSlhVc3FUVlJtTDkxMnp6eGFDb2pNakl4bGxnbz0tLUE5RjhCU0NUT1ZWa0NuQ3MySFFWWnc9PQ==--86f7fac07cdbd01dd2b26ae84dc6c8ca49e45b50)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)

## Usage
```bash
npm i -g yo
npm i -g generator-open-wc

# scaffold a complete new component
mkdir my-element
cd my-element
# Default development recommendation
yo open-wc:scaffold-vanilla

# upgrade/align your existing web component with 'open-wc' recommendations
cd existing-web-component
yo open-wc
```

## Homepage
For more details please visit us at [open-wc.org](https://www.open-wc.org).

## Packages

| Package | Version | Description |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [testing-helpers](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-helpers) | [![testing-helpers](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-helpers.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-helpers) | Testing Helpers following open-wc recommendations. |
| [chai-dom-equals](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/chai-dom-equals) | [![chai-dom-equals](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/chai-dom-equals.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/chai-dom-equals) | Chai Plugin to compare dom and shadow dom trees. Part of open-wc recommendations. |
| [semantic-dom-diff](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/semantic-dom-diff) | [![semantic-dom-diff](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/semantic-dom-diff.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/semantic-dom-diff) | To compare dom and shadow dom trees. Part of open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing) | [![testing](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing) | Testing following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-karma](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-karma) | [![testing-karma](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-karma.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-karma) | Testing with Karma following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-karma-bs](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-karma-bs) | [![testing-karma-bs](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-karma-bs.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-karma-bs) | Testing with Karma using Browserstack following open-wc recommendations. |
| [webpack-import-meta-loader](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/webpack-import-meta-loader) | [![webpack-import-meta-loader](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/webpack-import-meta-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/webpack-import-meta-loader) | Webpack loader plugin to support import.meta. |
| [generator-open-wc](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/generator-open-wc) | [![generator-open-wc](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/generator-open-wc.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-open-wc) | Scaffold web components following open-wc recommendations. |
| [polyfills-loader](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/polyfills-loader) | [![polyfills-loader](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/polyfills-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/polyfills-loader) | Load web component polyfills using dynamic imports. |
| [eslint-config](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/eslint-config) | [![eslint-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/eslint-config.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/eslint-config) | Eslint configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-wallaby](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-wallaby) | [![testing-wallaby](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-wallaby.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-wallaby) | Testing with wallaby following open-wc recommendations. |
| [prettier-config](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/prettier-config) | [![prettier-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/prettier-config.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/prettier-config) | Prettier configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [building-webpack](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/building-webpack) | [![building-webpack](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/building-webpack.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/building-webpack) | Default configuration for working with webpack. |
| [storybook](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/storybook) | [![storybook](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/storybook.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/storybook) | Storybook configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [owc-dev-server](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/owc-dev-server) | [![owc-dev-server](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/owc-dev-server.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/owc-dev-server) | Development server for modern web apps. |

## Contact
Feel free to create [a github issue](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/issues/new) for any feedback or questions you might have.

You can also find us on the Polymer slack in the [#open-wc](https://polymer.slack.com/messages/CE6D9DN05) channel.

You can join the Polymer slack by visiting [this link](https://join.slack.com/t/polymer/shared_invite/enQtNTAzNzg3NjU4ODM4LTkzZGVlOGIxMmNiMjMzZDM1YzYyMzdiYTk0YjQyOWZhZTMwN2RlNjM5ZDFmZjMxZWRjMWViMDA1MjNiYWFhZWM).


## We Proudly Use
<a href="http://browserstack.com/" style="border: none;"><img src="https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/blob/master/assets/images/Browserstack-logo.svg" width="200" alt="Browserstack Logo" /></a>

<a href="http://netlify.com/" style="border: none;"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/press/logos/full-logo-light.svg" width="185" alt="netlify logo" /></a>


## Guide
```bash
# bootstrap/setup
npm run bootstrap

# linting
npm run lint

# local testing
npm run test

# testing via browserstack
npm run test:bs

# run commands only for a specific scope
lerna run <command> --scope @open-wc/<package-name> --stream
```

Commit message:

chore: add blog section and twitter

README.md, after:

> ## 🛠 Status: In Development
> open-wc is still in an early stage - please review our recommendations and test our tools! We'd love to get your feedback.

<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/blob/master/assets/images/logo.png" width="200" alt="Open-wc Logo" /></p>

# Open Web Component Recommendations
Open Web Components provides a set of defaults, recommendations and tools to help facilitate your web component project. Our recommendations include: developing, linting, testing, building, tooling, demoing, publishing and automating.

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/open-wc/open-wc.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/open-wc/open-wc)
[![BrowserStack Status](https://www.browserstack.com/automate/badge.svg?badge_key=M2UrSFVRang2OWNuZXlWSlhVc3FUVlJtTDkxMnp6eGFDb2pNakl4bGxnbz0tLUE5RjhCU0NUT1ZWa0NuQ3MySFFWWnc9PQ==--86f7fac07cdbd01dd2b26ae84dc6c8ca49e45b50)](https://www.browserstack.com/automate/public-build/M2UrSFVRang2OWNuZXlWSlhVc3FUVlJtTDkxMnp6eGFDb2pNakl4bGxnbz0tLUE5RjhCU0NUT1ZWa0NuQ3MySFFWWnc9PQ==--86f7fac07cdbd01dd2b26ae84dc6c8ca49e45b50)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)

## Usage
```bash
npm i -g yo
npm i -g generator-open-wc

# scaffold a complete new component
mkdir my-element
cd my-element
# Default development recommendation
yo open-wc:scaffold-vanilla

# upgrade/align your existing web component with 'open-wc' recommendations
cd existing-web-component
yo open-wc
```

## Homepage
For more details please visit us at [open-wc.org](https://www.open-wc.org).

## Packages

| Package | Version | Description |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [testing-helpers](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-helpers) | [![testing-helpers](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-helpers.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-helpers) | Testing Helpers following open-wc recommendations. |
| [chai-dom-equals](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/chai-dom-equals) | [![chai-dom-equals](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/chai-dom-equals.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/chai-dom-equals) | Chai Plugin to compare dom and shadow dom trees. Part of open-wc recommendations. |
| [semantic-dom-diff](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/semantic-dom-diff) | [![semantic-dom-diff](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/semantic-dom-diff.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/semantic-dom-diff) | To compare dom and shadow dom trees. Part of open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing) | [![testing](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing) | Testing following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-karma](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-karma) | [![testing-karma](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-karma.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-karma) | Testing with Karma following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-karma-bs](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-karma-bs) | [![testing-karma-bs](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-karma-bs.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-karma-bs) | Testing with Karma using Browserstack following open-wc recommendations. |
| [webpack-import-meta-loader](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/webpack-import-meta-loader) | [![webpack-import-meta-loader](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/webpack-import-meta-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/webpack-import-meta-loader) | Webpack loader plugin to support import.meta. |
| [generator-open-wc](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/generator-open-wc) | [![generator-open-wc](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/generator-open-wc.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-open-wc) | Scaffold web components following open-wc recommendations. |
| [polyfills-loader](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/polyfills-loader) | [![polyfills-loader](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/polyfills-loader.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/polyfills-loader) | Load web component polyfills using dynamic imports. |
| [eslint-config](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/eslint-config) | [![eslint-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/eslint-config.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/eslint-config) | Eslint configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [testing-wallaby](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/testing-wallaby) | [![testing-wallaby](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/testing-wallaby.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/testing-wallaby) | Testing with wallaby following open-wc recommendations. |
| [prettier-config](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/prettier-config) | [![prettier-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/prettier-config.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/prettier-config) | Prettier configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [building-webpack](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/building-webpack) | [![building-webpack](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/building-webpack.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/building-webpack) | Default configuration for working with webpack. |
| [storybook](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/storybook) | [![storybook](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@open-wc/storybook.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@open-wc/storybook) | Storybook configuration following open-wc recommendations. |
| [owc-dev-server](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/tree/master/packages/owc-dev-server) | [![owc-dev-server](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/owc-dev-server.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/owc-dev-server) | Development server for modern web apps. |

## Contact
Feel free to reach out to us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/OpenWc) or create [a github issue](https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/issues/new) for any feedback or questions you might have.

You can also find us on the Polymer slack in the [#open-wc](https://polymer.slack.com/messages/CE6D9DN05) channel.

You can join the Polymer slack by visiting [this link](https://join.slack.com/t/polymer/shared_invite/enQtNTAzNzg3NjU4ODM4LTkzZGVlOGIxMmNiMjMzZDM1YzYyMzdiYTk0YjQyOWZhZTMwN2RlNjM5ZDFmZjMxZWRjMWViMDA1MjNiYWFhZWM).


## We Proudly Use
<a href="http://browserstack.com/" style="border: none;"><img src="https://github.com/open-wc/open-wc/blob/master/assets/images/Browserstack-logo.svg" width="200" alt="Browserstack Logo" /></a>

<a href="http://netlify.com/" style="border: none;"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/press/logos/full-logo-light.svg" width="185" alt="netlify logo" /></a>


## Guide
```bash
# bootstrap/setup
npm run bootstrap

# linting
npm run lint

# local testing
npm run test

# testing via browserstack
npm run test:bs

# run commands only for a specific scope
lerna run <command> --scope @open-wc/<package-name> --stream
```
